---
title: "Ancient India"
date: 2020-05-11-14:40:55-0700
---

India has evolved fascinatingly throughout its existence. It has been through many civil wars, governments, and periods. Ancient India was an astonishingly intelligent civilization, for it had come up with many revolutionary inventions. Some of these include the field of medicine, the decimal system, fables, and the game of chess. India has always been one of the most advanced civilizations, and this essay will explain why.

One celebrated conqueror of Ancient India was Chandragupta. Many historians believe that he grew up in a modest family, while some others say that he grew up with the military. He became a military leader at a young age and worked with many new tools, such as elephants sending warriors into combat. Once he was in power, he apportioned India into four regions or provinces. Chandragupta lived in uncertainty despite his comfortable palace and went outside seldom, so he established a spy network. Chandragupta's power was passed down from generation to generation, eventually moving to Asoka, a legendary conqueror of India.

Asoka was not violent. He was a teacher who taught how to tolerate various beliefs. Asoka had workers build hospitals, wells, and pillars. His nonviolent laws caused the crime rate to drop, and India soon became a tranquil, calm place to live. Unfortunately, after 140 years, Asoka's rules came to a finish, and soon India's classical period commenced.

A famous empire in Indian history was the Gupta Empire. The first Gupta ruler was Chandra Gupta, who identified himself after the Maura Empire's founder, Chandragupta. Gupta expanded his territory through war and ruled in the region of Magadha. Unfortunately, he died in AD 330, which was marked the beginning of a new empire. His son, Samudra Gupta, called himself the Exterminator of Kings, for he had conquered most of Northern India. Chandra Gupta II, Samudra Gupta's son, forced his reign among the people of India. But once he was in power, he brought harmony and prosperity to India. A Chinese monk named Fa Hsien recalled from his visit to India: "Throughout the whole country the people do not kill any living creature...." Under Chandra Gupta II's reign, the fable was born. Most of them utilize animals to assert wisdom and how one functions, and some of them included fairy tales and folk tales. Skillful artists produced statues using valuable materials, and they were used to decorate Buddhist and Hindu temples, which we visit today. The game of chess originated in India during the Classical Age, and the game spread around the world rather quickly. Ancient Indians developed the decimal system during this time, which is a counting system based on units of ten. A mathematician named Aryabhatta wrote a groundbreaking book on arithmetic, algebra, and trigonometry. He was the first person to question the fact that the earth was flat. Indian doctors at the time made revolutionary advances in their field. Ancient Ayurvedic textbooks for doctors described thousands upon thousands of diseases and produced remedies for damaged limbs to blindness. Unfortunately, the Gupta Empire had to cease in 540 AD due to its lack of power.

Asoka's tolerance rules and Chandragupta's stringent laws shaped India to what we know today. India was the birthplace of many innovative ideas, such as chess and the decimal system. Its ancient period was the origin of many new ideas and beliefs, and the Gupta and the Mauryan dynasties will continue to influence the world.
